# St. Louis UNIX Users Group (SLUUG) - 2021-07-14

## BASE Presentation

The BASE presentation on July 14th, 2021 was titled: Data Entry Form in Calc

The presenter was  Stan Reichardt.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
Data Entry Form is a tool to make table data entry easy in spreadsheets. With the Data Entry Form, you can enter, edit and delete records (or rows) of data and avoid horizontal scrolling when the table has many columns or when some columns are very wide.

## MAIN Presentation

The MAIN presentation on July 14th, 2021 was titled: Preboot eXecution Environment

The presenter was Wendell Barber.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
Wendell created a PXE server to see if he could get it to work and try out different distro installations without using a disk or a USB flash drive.

In computing, the Preboot eXecution Environment, PXE specification describes a standardized client-server environment that boots a software assembly, retrieved from a network, on PXE-enabled clients. See: Wikipedia

Wendell also built a FreeNas computer with a couple of virtual machines (Raspbian Desktop and Ubuntu) running on it, along with a Unifi controller using a docker, along with a Nextcloud server, and Syncthing running in jails. This machine is also used as an Apple Time Machine backup server.

Wendell turned a desktop PC into a router using PFSense with ad blocking features, Dynamic DNS, running a OpenVPN server, and VLAN(s) on it. He installed BunsenLabs Linux Lithium distro on desktop computer the is 22 years on. Also created a simple bash script using the zenity commands that will ask the current logged in users if they would like to update and upgrade their system. 
