# St. Louis UNIX Users Group (SLUUG) - 2021-04-14

## BASE Presentation

The BASE presentation on April 14th, 2021 was titled: Create Your Own Shell Functions.

The presenter was James Conroy.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
Tired of your static aliases only doing the one thing?

Want to add some flow control to your shell, so that it changes behavior depending on the time of day, day of the week, or OS of that server you're about to ssh into?

This tutorial will give you the what, why, and how of BASH functions.

Plus, how to find and 'fix' the functions the last 'sysadmin' left behind. 

## MAIN Presentation

The MAIN presentation on April 14th, 2021 was titled: COSI (Common Operating System Interface)

The presenter was  Steven Borrelli.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
This talk introduces COSI, the Common Operating System Interface, which defines an API for the configuration of container operating systems.

While there has been innovation in the development of minimal Linux distributions for running Kubernetes, the distributions diverge from each other in terms of management and API endpoints. Similar to other projects such as the Container Network Interface (CNI) , COSI has a focus on the configuration of the underlying (Linux) OS, providing Protocol Buffer definitions and a gRPC API reference implementation for configuration settings such as DNS, network, and kernel settings. By utilizing a flexible plugin system, multiple backend implementations can provide a consistent API to consumers.
