# St. Louis UNIX Users Group (SLUUG) - 2021-05-12

## BASE Presentation

The BASE presentation on May 12th, 2021 was titled: Upgrading RAID6, Zero Downtime.

The presenter was Lee Lammert.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
There is a lot of hype about "zero downtime", and many vendors charge boucoup dinero for that sort of hardware capability to have when upgrading a storage array.

With Linux SoftRAID, however, don't believe the hype - "zero downtime" has nothing to do with hardware!

This tutorial will cover upgrading a 6x2T SoftRAID array to 6x4T, and then adding two more 4T drives, without any downtime or service interruption. 

## MAIN Presentation

The MAIN presentation on May 12th, 2021 was titled: Redhat Kickstart.

The presenter was Steven Gomez.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
Red Hat's Kickstart installations offer a means to automate the installation process, either partially or fully. Kickstart files contain answers to all questions normally asked by the installation program, such as what time zone you want the system to use, how the drives should be partitioned, or which packages should be installed. Providing a prepared Kickstart file when the installation begins therefore allows you to perform the installation automatically, without need for any intervention from the user.

Kickstart features can be an Admin's best friend. This session will present examples of how to use the Kickstart system with RHEL/CentOS platforms to automate the creation of "cookie cutter" systems in an easily repeatable manner. Working examples of various methods of using Kickstarts will be included. 
