# St. Louis UNIX Users Group (SLUUG) - 2021-06-09

## BASE Presentation

The BASE presentation on June 9th, 2021 was titled: SQLite 3 Database

The presenter was Ed Howland.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
A database is used to collect, store, manage, organize and analyze information. There are many database systems. This session will introduce simple database concepts. Then it will cover the free SQLite database system that is likely the single most popular and widely deployed choice. 

## MAIN Presentation

The MAIN presentation on June 9th, 2021 was titled: git: peering behind the curtain 

The presenter was Robert Citek.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
After Robert's "A Gentle Introduction To git" last February, this will be a deeper dive, getting into some of the "behind the scenes" stuff that git does: where it stores files, how it stores metadata about the files, and how the files are organized.

In a previous talk, we went over the basics of using git as a version control system, covering the working folder, the staging area, and the repository. In this talk, we will go behind the scenes to see how git works its magic. We will cover the abstractions git uses, in particular, a key-value store, hashes, and graphs. We will then dig into how git implements and uses those abstractions to create a version control system using files and the file system. We will walk through examples of using the back-end commands to build a commit history just like git does. Our hope is that by peering behind the curtain we can begin to demystify the magic of git. 
