# St. Louis UNIX Users Group (SLUUG) - 2021-02-10

## BASE Presentation

The BASE presentation on February 10th, 2021 was titled: Speedbar. 

The presenter was Steve Stegman.

The presentation abstract was as follows:
Emacs' Speedbar for fast file access.

SpeedBar is a tool (written in EMACS) for organizing or listing files and directories

Speedbar is an integral part of Emacs which has been in use since version 23.2 in 2010. Entering “speedbar” in the emacs command line causes another frame to be opened to graphically show the current directory tree which can be traversed upwards and downwards from the current position. It shows all of the files and directories and each can be examined with a single mouse click. If the file is not text but a jpg or pdf or some other file type, an auxiliary program will be called to display the file in an emacs buffer.

## MAIN Presentation

The MAIN presentation on February 10th, 2021 was titled: A Gentle Introduction to git.

The presenter was Robert Citek. 

The presentation abstract was as follows:
From its inception in 2005, git has gone from a version-tracking tool used by Linux kernel developers to a corporate mainstay for collaborating in teams on projects. In this talk, we'll go over the three main parts of a git project ( i.e. working folder, staging area, and repository ) and how to work with each. In the process, we'll touch on many of the git objects that make those parts ( e.g. files/folders, commits, branches, SHAs, etc. ). And we'll do that by creating and modifying a project from scratch, using git to manage the changes. By the end, you will have a good basic understanding of how to use git to work on your own projects to then branch into more advanced uses of git.
